

### Title: Algorithmic inference, political interest, and exposure to news and politics on Facebook

### Publication: Information, Communication & Society 
Information, Communication & Society is a peer-reviewed academic journal covering the role of digital media in the Information Age.
According to the Journal Citation Reports, the journal has a 2018 impact factor of 4.124, ranking it 4th out of 88 journals in the category "Communication" and 5th out of 148 journals in the category "Sociology".

### Author：Kjerstin Thorson, Kelley Cotter, Mel Medeiros & Chankyung Pak
Kjerstin Thorson is an Associate Professor in the Department of Advertising and Public Relations and the School of Journalism, Michigan State University. Her research explores the role of digital and social media in promoting—or hindering—political engagement.

Kelley Cotter is a doctoral student in the Department of Media & Information, Michigan State University. Her primary research area concerns how people become aware of and knowledgeable about algorithms applied in sociotechnical systems and resultant implications for the accumulation of different forms of capital.

Mel Medeiros is a PhD student in the Department of Advertising and Public Relations, Michigan State University. Her research interests include political communication, digital politics, social media, and the platformization of politics.

Chankyung Pak is an assistant professor in Division of Business and Management (DBM) at Beijing Normal University-Hong Kong Baptist University (BNU-HKBU UIC). He is a computational social scientist who’s interested in the evolution of public discourse mediated by transforming media ecosystem.

### Paper Review
- Research Background
  1. The visibility of news and politics in a Facebook newsfeed depends on the actions of a diverse set of actors: users, their friends, content publishers such as news organizations, advertisers, and algorithms. There is a question that whether social newsfeeds increase serendipitous encounters with civic content – a happy outcome – or amplify individual preferences, leading to a rich-get-richer model of political content exposure.
  2. what becomes visible in the limited real estate of the newsfeed is determined by an entanglement of selection choices made over time by multiple sets of actors, each potentially influencing the other. These include users’ choices about what to ‘like’ or ‘follow,’ choices made by friends and followed organizations about what to post, and choices made by politicians and news organizations about whom to target with paid content.
  3. Although algorithmic classification of user interests has been addressed in discussions of advertising targeting on Facebook, its possible connection to exposure to news feed content has not yet been explored.
  4. Individual preferences are increasingly strong predictors of media exposure: People with higher levels of political interest are more likely to use news, and the power of political interest to predict news consumption has grown over time.

- Problem to Solve
  1. How to untangle the role of algorithmic interest classification processes from other factors that shape the visibility of news and politics on Facebook?
  2. How to understand how users become algorithmically categorized as ‘interested’ in news and politics, and how that categorization is related to content exposure?

- Key Design and Algorithm Proposed
  1. Key Design
    - combining a survey of young adults with a record of how each participant has been algorithmically classified for sale to advertisers on Facebook.
    - proposing two processes by which user behavior shapes categorization. First, through active customization of the platform, users intentionally tailor their information environments to their interests. Active customization entails the explicit expression of one’s interests by choosing to receive (or remove) content within certain categories or from particular sources (e.g., ‘liking’ a Facebook page). Second, they examine indirect pathways connecting political interest to exposure via homophily in friend groups.
    - 
  2. Algorighms
   - Survey measures:
    - Demographics: we used parents’ education and income as controls in our analyses. The education variable was the average of participants’ mother’s and father’s levels of education.Parental household income was measured across seven income brackets.
    - Political interest: To measure political interest, participants were asked to indicate their levels of interest in politics and national government on a 5-point scale.
    - Friends’ political posts: To get a sense of the scale of political content participants saw that originated from inter- personal contacts on Facebook, we asked participants to estimate what percentage of their Facebook ‘friends’ post about politics, indicated via a slider bar ranging from 0 to 100.
    - Exposure to political content on Facebook: We measured the degree of exposure to political content on Facebook via self-report, by asking participants how often they saw ‘content about politics or political issues’ on Facebook in the past week.
   - 
   
- Major Contribution
  1. presented a test case generation algorithm for checking individual discrimination in AI models. 
  2. combined the idea of symbolic evaluation which systematically generates test inputs and local explanation which approximates the path in the model using linear models. 
  
- Major limitation
  1. The overall effectiveness of the algorithm this paper proposed to solve problems of finding individual discrimination is still need to be improved.
  2. The approch should be evaluated by appling to other domains, such as images and articles.
  

- Something you don’t understand
  1. The principle of 'local explainer' technique which used as a part of the algorithm.
  
- Your view on the research domain/topic/approach/data/solution  (positive or negative)
  1. I hold a positive attitude to this domain, also I think the approach this paper proposed is useful and meaningful.
