

### Title: Algorithmic inference, political interest, and exposure to news and politics on Facebook

### Publication: Information, Communication & Society 
Information, Communication & Society is a peer-reviewed academic journal covering the role of digital media in the Information Age.
According to the Journal Citation Reports, the journal has a 2018 impact factor of 4.124, ranking it 4th out of 88 journals in the category "Communication" and 5th out of 148 journals in the category "Sociology".

### Author：Kjerstin Thorson, Kelley Cotter, Mel Medeiros & Chankyung Pak
Kjerstin Thorson is an Associate Professor in the Department of Advertising and Public Relations and the School of Journalism, Michigan State University. Her research explores the role of digital and social media in promoting—or hindering—political engagement.

Kelley Cotter is a doctoral student in the Department of Media & Information, Michigan State University. Her primary research area concerns how people become aware of and knowledgeable about algorithms applied in sociotechnical systems and resultant implications for the accumulation of different forms of capital.

Mel Medeiros is a PhD student in the Department of Advertising and Public Relations, Michigan State University. Her research interests include political communication, digital politics, social media, and the platformization of politics.

Chankyung Pak is an assistant professor in Division of Business and Management (DBM) at Beijing Normal University-Hong Kong Baptist University (BNU-HKBU UIC). He is a computational social scientist who’s interested in the evolution of public discourse mediated by transforming media ecosystem.

### Paper Review
- Research Background
  1. The visibility of news and politics in a Facebook newsfeed depends on the actions of a diverse set of actors: users, their friends, content publishers such as news organizations, advertisers, and algorithms. There is a question that whether social newsfeeds increase serendipitous encounters with civic content – a happy outcome – or amplify individual preferences, leading to a rich-get-richer model of political content exposure.
  2. what becomes visible in the limited real estate of the newsfeed is determined by an entanglement of selection choices made over time by multiple sets of actors, each potentially influencing the other. These include users’ choices about what to ‘like’ or ‘follow,’ choices made by friends and followed organizations about what to post, and choices made by politicians and news organizations about whom to target with paid content.
  3. Although algorithmic classification of user interests has been addressed in discussions of advertising targeting on Facebook, its possible connection to exposure to news feed content has not yet been explored.
  4. Individual preferences are increasingly strong predictors of media exposure: People with higher levels of political interest are more likely to use news, and the power of political interest to predict news consumption has grown over time.

- Problem to Solve
  1. How to untangle the role of algorithmic interest classification processes from other factors that shape the visibility of news and politics on Facebook?
  2. How to understand how users become algorithmically categorized as ‘interested’ in news and politics, and how that categorization is related to content exposure?

- Key Design and Algorithm Proposed
  1. Key Design
    - combining a survey of young adults with a record of how each participant has been algorithmically classified for sale to advertisers on Facebook.
    - proposing two processes by which user behavior shapes categorization. First, through active customization of the platform, users intentionally tailor their information environments to their interests. Active customization entails the explicit expression of one’s interests by choosing to receive (or remove) content within certain categories or from particular sources (e.g., ‘liking’ a Facebook page). Second, they examine indirect pathways connecting political interest to exposure via homophily in friend groups.
    - 
  2. Algorighms
   - Survey measures(dimension): "Demographics": we used parents’ education and income as controls in our analyses. The education variable was the average of participants’ mother’s and father’s levels of education. Parental household income was measured across seven income brackets. "Political interest": To measure political interest, participants were asked to indicate their levels of interest in politics and national government on a 5-point scale. "Friends’ political posts": To get a sense of the scale of political content participants saw that originated from inter- personal contacts on Facebook, we asked participants to estimate what percentage of their Facebook ‘friends’ post about politics, indicated via a slider bar ranging from 0 to 100. "Exposure to political content on Facebook": We measured the degree of exposure to political content on Facebook via self-report, by asking participants how often they saw ‘content about politics or political issues’ on Facebook in the past week.
   - First, this paper extracts the list of pages a user has ‘liked’ and the list of interest categories assigned to the user. 
   - Next, the code matches these two lists with a dictionary of politicians, media, advocacy and activist organizations, and political keywords.
   - Then, decapitalize both entries from the Facebook data and our list of names and keywords, remove any abbreviated middle names from items when applicable, and sequentially match the item from the Facebook data with each item from our list.
   - Finally, they compute inferred political interest which reports the degree to which Facebook has categorized participants as interested in news media and politics. It was measured by computing the number of political or media-related topics listed in the ‘ads topics’ file of participants’ Facebook data, captured as described above. 
   
- Major Contribution
  1. presented a algorithmic categorization which is proposed to mediate the relationship between users’ political interest and content exposure. 
  2. drew a conclusion that individual behavior and motivated by personal interest both shapes how the algorithm categorizes the interests of each user over time.
  
- Major limitation
  1. The newsfeed ranking algorithm is not available for study, so we cannot know for certain how important these signals about user interest are for determining story ranking. 
  

- Something you don’t understand
  
- Your view on the research domain/topic/approach/data/solution  (positive or negative)
  1. Facebook's recommendation system is a very complicated system. I think that this article may cannot explain the specific operation mechanism clearly. At the same time, many conclusions of the article are guessing and reasoning.
  2. The idea of using Facebook's data interface is very meaningful.
