Reading Note(2)
===
Anatomy of "La VALSE: Scalable Log Visualization for Fault Characterization in Supercomputers"
---
>Date： 
Author: Shaolun
***

Publication: *Eurographics Symposium on Parallel Graphics and Visualization (2018)*
---

Author: *Hanqi Guo, Sheng Di, Rinku Gupta, Tom Peterka, and Franck Cappello*
---

### Abstract
<font style="color:blue">We design and implement La VALSE—a scalable visualization tool to explore tens of millions of records of reliability, availability, and serviceability (RAS) logs—for IBM Blue Gene/Q systems. Our tool is designed to meet various analysis requirement,including tracing causes offailure events and investigating correlations from the redundant and noisy RAS messages.</font> <font style="color:green">La VALSE consists of multiple linked views to visualize RAS logs; each log message has a time stamp, physical location, network address, and multiple categorical dimensions such as severity and category. The timeline view features the scalable ThemeRiver and arc diagrams that enables interactive exploration of tens of millions of log messages. The spatial view visualizes the occurrences of RAS messages on hundreds of thousands of elements of Mira—compute cards, node boards, midplanes, and racks—with viewdependent level-of-detail rendering. The multidimensional view enables interactive filtering of different categorical dimensions of RAS messages.</font> <font style="color:orange">To achieve interactivity, we develop an efficient and scalable online data cube engine that can query 55 million RAS logs in less than one second.</font> <font style="color:steelblue">We present several case studies on Mira, a top supercomputer at Argonne National Laboratory. The case studies demonstrate that La VALSE can help users quickly identify the sources of failure events and analyze spatiotemporal correlations of RAS messages in different scales.</font>
<font style="color:blue"></font>

摘要原文如上。
本文的摘要分为了四部分。
<font style="color:blue">蓝色</font>是开篇第一句，说明了研究设计和实现的系统的名称，解释了LA VALSE大致功能，说明了实验对象的类别 IBM geneQ system。下一句更加具体的说明了系统的功能 tracing causes offailure events and investigating correlations from the redundant and noisy RAS messages。
<font style="color:green">绿色</font>部分详细的 按照view的划分 来逐一解释系统的功能。其中还引出了实验对象Mira。
<font style="color:orange">橙色</font>部分 解释为了实现交互性 抛出了他们的服务器架构： scalable online data cube engine 
最后蓝色部分是对contribution的概括。
***

### 我的Abstract
This paper presents an integrated visualization system JobPlot that employs a two-staged streaming visualization for addressing user-specific behaviors that may cause the issues through analyzing andvisualize system job scheduling data and system usage data. Throughthe tool, administration team can be guided to understand the stateof system. Prior to rendering into visual interface, the data generatedfrom the platform are pre-processed, modeled before delivered to thefront-end visualization interface. The visualization system illustratesa novel technique to visually identify the user’s abnormal operationinstead of reading through the raw data collected from the cloudinfrastructure. We demonstrate the effectiveness and accuracy of theproposed system framework on a real cloud system data trace

自己的摘要如上。前两句还make sense 到第三句Prior to rendering into visual interface, the data generatedfrom the platform are pre-processed, modeled before delivered to thefront-end visualization interface首先不明所以，因为这句话的重要程度放在摘要就很奇怪，而且没有什么内容分和特殊点。
剩下的还算读的通，但是感觉有些幼稚。没有什么闪光点 不像上面paper中那么宏大的感觉，这个技能可能要读很多的paper然后慢慢积累吧
读完Abstract 因为没有啥重大失误但也给人的印象不深，所以估计就是个3/5分的摘要吧
***

### Inctruction
<font style="color:blue">Resilience—the most difficult and underaddressed problem in today’s high performance computing—becomes a significant issue as the systems approach exascale.</font>**引出resilience** <font style="color:green">For example, in a typical petascale supercomputer, a failure event that causes job termination could happen every several days. Such failures arise from hardware, sys- software, file systems, power, and even the cooling system. Large-scale scientific simulations and data analysis jobs are vulnerable to the errors, because fatal system errors may lead to the unexpected termination and job failures during execution. To this end, researchers have been investigating systems and software that are resilient to failures.</font>**举例解释Resilience** <font style="color:orange">Exploring the properties and correlations of the failure events is nontrivial; however, because of the largescale, complicated system architecture that involves hundreds of thousands of various types of modules and components, such as processors, memory units, network modules, and power supplies. </font>**阐述现在研究背景的困难和不好解决的问题，以及研究受到掣肘的因素**

<font style="color:red">One of the most important ways to study resilience is to perform posthoc analysis of the logs that record the error, warning, nd informational messages generated by different components in supercomputers. These logs provide the key information that can be used to understand the features of failure events and eventually help resilience researchers improve checkpoint/restart mechanisms and system software designs. </font>**这一段主要解释了现在研究Resilience的主要方法：posthoc analysis of the logs，可能也在解释为什么没有一个实时分析系统而是用post data分析来解释的**

<font style="color:steelblue">In this paper, we present a scalable visualization framework— La VALSE—to help users explore and understand log data of supercomputers.</font>**承接上面的现有研究方法之后，作者提出了自己的研究方法，但是并没有 直接说LA VALSE相比较其他方法的优势（在下文中提到）** <font style="color:grey">We specifically study Mira, which is a 10-petaflops IBMBlue Gene/Q supercomputer at Argonne National Laboratory. The system consists of 786,432 processors, 768 TB of memory, and 24 PB of parallel file system. The interconnection of Mira is a 5D torus network. In our visualizations, we mainly incorporate the reliability, availability, and serviceability (RAS) logs. The RAS logs accumulated over five years have 55 million entries.</font>**介绍了一下研究对象Mira的基本情况吗，可能是作者的研究资源比较的突出，所以花了些篇幅来介绍这个一般人不太了解的supercomputer的运行情况**

The objectives of La VALSE are derived from the needs of two target user groups, resilience researchers and system administrators:
(1) interactively exploring tens of millions of logs and (2) correlating errors that occur in different categories, locations, and
times. First, users need to trace the causes of failures and understand
error propagation through interactive exploration. With La VALSE’s scalable visualizations, users can explore the causes of failures with their domain knowledge. For example, an unexpected memory error could lead to a bit flipping in the code segment of a user application. The bit flipping may cause an instruction error, resulting in failures in functions, threads, processes, and jobs. Second, it is important to correlate different types of errors in order to understand failures. In addition to the obvious correlations uch as memory error and instruction error in the previous example, we must be able to comprehensively identify all correlations of different types of errors that happen in different spatiotemporal locations. 

Major challenges in designing La VALSE include (1) visual representation of noisy and heterogeneous logs and (2) scalability of
handling tens of millions of log records for interactive visualization
and analysis.

We must design new visual representations for logs that are
noisy, heterogeneous, and with hierarchical and high-dimensional
network topologies. First, the RAS logs are so noisy that key messages
can be easily obscured by using traditional visualizations.
In general, most of the RAS records are warnings and informational
messages, and only 1% of the RAS records (100K messages
per year) are fatal errors. In our observation, the majority of
messages are insignificant, random, or duplicated during a burst.
Second, there are heterogeneous sources of logs incorporating jobs
and RAS. These logs have distinct data structures and reflect different
aspects of the system. Third, the errors may be the reason
for other components in a high-dimensional, hierarchical network,
introducing a huge challenge when exploring their correlations. In
Blue Gene/Q systems, for example, compute nodes are installed on
node boards, which are located in different midplanes and racks;
compute nodes are also connected in a 5D torus network.

We must also visualize and handle log data with scalability.
Mira, which consists of 100K components, has generated 55 million
RASmessages in the past five years. Existing visualizations are
not able to render so many messages at an interactive speed. ThemeRiver
[HHN00,HHWN02] and arc diagrams [Wat02], for example,
are well-known tools to visualize repetition patterns over time,
but such diagrams are not scalable to tens of millions of log records.
La VALSE scales the interactive arc diagram rendering by binning
themessages over time and avoiding overplotting themachine components
with level-of-detail rendering. We must also scale data
handling to support interactive queries. Although existing online
analytical processing (OLAP) tools such as Nanocubes [LKS13]
and imMens [LJH13] can handle geospatial and multidimensional
queries, they are not directly applicable to RAS logs that contain
complex network information. Instead, we need to redesign scalable
OLAP query engines to handle RAS log data.

La VALSE features several novel designs in both visualization
representation and data handling. We propose scalable ThemeRiver,
scalable arc diagrams, and a scalable physical view to
enable interactive exploration of tens of millions of log records
through web browsers. The scalable ThemeRiver magnifies and
highlights a small volume of important log messages; the scalable
arc diagrams reduce geometry primitives by binning logs for
fast and scalable rendering; and the scalable physical view uses semantic zooming and level-of-detail rendering to visualize hundreds
of thousands of components on Mira, such as compute cards, link
chips, optical modules, and power modules. The implementation of
the web-based user interface is based on d3.js, SVG, and HTML5
Canvas. More details on the scalable visualization designs are in
Section 5.

La VALSE also features scalable querying designs. We developed
a customized in-memory database to enable execution of data
cube queries for RAS logs with high dimensionality, large volume,
and complex physical and topological locations. Not only can the
query engine can run in a single machine, but it also is scalable
to distributed and parallel environments. We also use a sparse data
structure to reduce interprocess communication for scalable querying.
More details on scalable querying are in Section 6.

To the best of our knowledge, La VALSE is the first visualization
framework that addresses the challenge of analyzing RAS logs.
Overall, the contributions of this paper are threefold:
• A scalable log visualization framework for fault characterization
in supercomputers
• A redesign of scalable ThemeRiver and scalable arc diagrams
for visualizing tens of millions of log records
• A scalable data cube query engine for interactive queries of tens
of millions of log records
The remainder of this paper is organized as follows. Section 2
summarizes the related work. Section 3 gives an overview of the
system, followed by the description of the data. We then introduce
our scalable visualization and querying techniques in Section 5 and
Section 6, respectively. Cases studies and discussions are in Section
7 and Section 8, respectively, followed by the conclusions in
Section 9.
