
Paper Reading Note
===
>Date： 
Author: Shaolun
***

Title: *Origraph: Interactive Network Wranglings*
   

Publication: *IEEE Visualization VAST 2019*
   

Author: *Alex Bigelow Carolina Nobre  Miriah Meyer Alexander Lex*
   

  
Paper Review
   
#### Research Background&Problem to Solve
Data wrangling is widely acknowledged to be a critical part of the data analysis pipeline, yet interactive network wrangling has received little attention in the visualization research community. Data wrangling—which includes cleaning data, merging datasets, and transforming representations—is known to be a tedious and time consuming part of data analysis. Historically, wrangling was done with scripting languages such as Python, Perl, and R, or manipulation in spreadsheet tools, requiring significant computa  tional skills.In this paper, we discuss a set of operations that are important for wrangling network datasets and introduce a visual data wrangling tool, Origraph, that enables analysts to apply these operations to their datasets.

#### Key Design and Algorithm Proposed
**Connecting or disconnecting** items is the most fundamental modeling operation. Connections can be established by leveraging the primary key / foreign key approach well known in the database literature, where each item of a tabular dataset has a unique ID, and another column has a foreign key pointing to the primary key of the same or another table.

**Promoting attributes** allows users to promote the unique values of an attribute column to a new class.

**Faceting** slices a class based on the value of an attribute and creates new classes for each slice

**Converting between nodes and edges** transformsconnected nodes into edges, or vice versa, retaining the connectivity and seman 
tics of the network

**Edge projection** introduces an edge based on a path in the network model between nodes. The path can be specified with a set of rules leveraging the classes and the attributes of the network.
#### Major Contribution
Origraph enables analysts to execute these operations with little to no programming, and to immediately visualize the results. Origraph provides views to investigate the network model, a sample of the network, and node and edge attributes. Origraph is a first steps toward allowing data literate non programmers to wrangle networks to answer important questions in their area of inquiry and to produce visualizations they can use to communicate their findings. Origraph is designed to ingest raw data, e.g., in the form of JSON retrieved from an API, and then enable analysts to wrangle the data into a network that corresponds to their mental model. Build in visualization capabilities enable analysts to quickly iterate between analysis and modeling

#### Major limitation
Although Origraph scales to thousands of nodes and edges, it does not scale to arbitrarily large networks.  Bigelow et al. plan on improving scalability using an approach common to visual data wrangling tools: loading a sampled dataset
#### Something you don’t understand
I dont know clearly how to combine the process of data crawler and this vis tool Origraph together. Is the approach of loading the raw data into the Origragh the only way to analyse my raw data. It's a little sophisticated that way. Another question I have has been solved in the limitation: how can a big data file work? Because I download the official dataset on the Github the author gives, and the sample data is only 5M 15M, it's very small for a data analyst.

#### Your view on the research domain/topic/approach/data/solution  (positive or negative)
This paper is published from IEEE VIS VAST 2019. Bigelow et al. propose a web-based visual analysis tool to abstract the raw dataset ceawlered from web into graphic design with useful networks to represent relations between different data files. As the anthor said, this tool is a novel approach in the process of data crawlering. As for me, it is very suprise to see such a visualization tool(because i encounter the same situation as the author did, but why i cannot come up with such kind of idea..) It makes the process of analyse the relationship and same key between different data-sets. Two dataset will be connected with the key-name if the common key really exists. What a brilliant idea! 
The point is how does Bigelow et al. implement such a web-baesd tool.(I always focus on the implement phase because we are not the poem writter, we are the data analysts and system builders actually. The only thinking affacts me deeply in the last time ChinaVis is a saying from Dr.Yuan: the terrific students i taught each has his own characteristics and advantages, however, the common advantage they get is they are all really good at practical skills) I download the project pkg from github they leaves, and i found that there is no back-end in this vis tool. All of the view is implemented in javascript. And the graphic part is in d3js and origraph.js.(I dont know exactly if this library is written by the author his own) The screeanshot if this tool is designed in grid-style, which fits our single-page application very well. But i have a question all the time: how could i implement such a single-page app by my self. i thought bootstrap or antd etc. style framework could help me in this. However, they can only handle the layout between different components and labels. I have no idea until i see this Origraph source code. Bigelow et al. uesd a framework called golden-layout(in the file named *lib* in the pkg). this kind of layout tool could help coders to change each components into different grids, and has a good response of user operations. What a play!
After that, i found another grid pkg which has more stars and users than goldenlayout, which is called react-grid-layout. What a shocking good news for me to implement grid style user interface instead of design it in the bootstrap dead wood layout which has no response at all!
