
### Title: Learning Everywhere: Pervasive Machine Learning for Effective High-Performance Computing

### Publication: arXiv

### Author：Geoffrey Fox et al.


### Paper Review
- Research Background

    Using HPC on data intensive computation can improve the efficiency and performance of data intensive computation.

- Problem to Solve

    This paper is a review article. Instead of solving any problem, it mainly discovers problems faced by applying HPC on data intensive methodologies, especially machine learning.

- Key Design and Algorithm Proposed

    They mainly propose a way to measure the effectiveness of speedup machine learning using HPC.

- Major Contribution

    1. Summarize the interfaces between HPC and ML.
    2. Offer some examples of using machine learning and high-performance computing on domain science.
    3. Propose a method to evaluate how effective of using HPC to speedup machine learning.
    4. Conclude opportunities and challenges confronted by HPC-ML interfaces.

- Major limitation

    1. A method to evaluate performance improvement is proposed, but no example or data is given to illustrate how much improvement HPC can bring to speedup ML.
    2. Many examples using HPC to speedup ML is offered, but there is only word description and there is no data used to prove HPC can surely improve ML performance.

- Something you don’t understand

    1. In the proposed evaluate method part, I don't know what do *T<sub>lookup</sub>* and *N<sub>lookup</sub>* exactly mean using their explanation.
    2. In the examples part, they use a lot of terminologies and knowledge in domain science that I have not learned before.

- Your view on the research domain/topic/approach/data/solution  (positive or negative)

    1. Using HPC to accelerate ML is promising because traditional ways to train ML models are very time consuming.
    2. There are many difficulties present, solving these difficulties maybe hard but is promising.
