
### Title: Image Super-Resolution Using Deep Convolutional Networks

### Publication: TPAMI

### Author：Chao Dong et al.


### Paper Review
- Research Background

There are many methods to solve Single Image Super-Resolution problem, yet previous state-of-the-art works are either hardly optimized or using same optimization. And some methods can be considered as deep CNNs.

- Problem to Solve

Generate a high-resolution image using a single low-resolution image and make sure the generated image can be as similar as possible to the original high-resolution image.

- Key Design and Algorithm Proposed

Their proposed method contains three kinds of operations, i.e. patch extraction, non-linear-mapping, and reconstruction. Their patch extraction and non-linear mapping can be considered as convolution layers with ReLU activation. And their reconstruction can be considered as a convolution layer without ReLU activation.

- Major Contribution

Their proposed method can generate high-resolution image from low-resolution image, and generated image can be very similar to original high-resolution image. Also they use three color channels instead of gray scale.

- Major limitation

1. This method can only generate high-resolution image once a time.
2. This method requires original high-resolution images to train the network.

- Something you don’t understand

1. Even though they use a method called PSNR to evaluate the performance, there is no explanation about this evaluation method.
2. I don't know why not generate a bunch of high-resolution images instead of only one high-resolution image.
3. I don't know what is external example-based method means. 

- Your view on the research domain/topic/approach/data/solution  (positive or negative)

1. Generating high-resolution images from low-resolution images using deep learning methods is promising because many original images are low-resolution and high-resolution images can be very helpful to solve many real world problems.

2. They use convolution to generate high-resolution images, which is novel from previous super-resolution methods. But their method to evaluate generated data is not so convincing.

3. They use ImageNet in their experiments, ImageNet is a image dataset with a lot of images.
