### Title: Photo-Realistic Single Image Super-Resolution Using a Generative Adversarial Network

### Publication: CVPR

### Author：Christian Ledig et al.


### Paper Review
- Research Background

  Recent state-of-the-art works focusing on restore images from low-resolution are unable to generate details in high-resolution.

- Problem to Solve

  Produce high-resolution images from down-scaled low-resolution images and simultaneously learn to recover finer details.

- Key Design and Algorithm Proposed

  1. They follow the GAN proposed by Ian et al. to define their adversarial networks.
  2. They propose a perceptual loss function including two parts of loss as their loss function to train their SRGAN.

- Major Contribution

  1. Instead of using MSE as the loss function, they use the perceptual loss function to train their model.
  2. Their work can recover finer details of the high-resolution image.

- Major limitation

  1. They can't restore multiple images simultaneously.
  2. They don't mention whether they can generate images with other upscaling-factors instead of 4 times.

- Something you don’t understand

  I don't know what is mean opinion score testing.

- Your view on the research domain/topic/approach/data/solution  (positive or negative)

  1. I think restore images from low-resolution is promising, and I think generating images which have higher resolution than original images is more promising but complicated.
  2. I think using the idea of GAN and proposing a loss function with two parts are great attempt.
  3. They fully exploited how different data sets and model structures affect the restoration results. 
